tags: website_dev_log

# Components, Design, and Static Page

## 01-13-24 to 01-22-24

### Progress

I copied my mid-fidelity wireframes over to the design tab, changing a few colors choices and elements. I was expecting to return to campus today, but inclement weather stranded me for a while in IAH, so I had a chance to continue working during my layover.

I spent a solid amount of time pre-defining CSS variables copied over from Figma. Once that was completed, I created the two main sections of the website (header and main), adding flex, width, and position styles to get a proper positioning on the page.

I then began working on components for each element, creating an unstyled, rudimentary component so that I could place a few on the page and began styling until the elements looked like the Figma design (Figma came in really handy here as much of the code was already pre-generated).

Once I finished the experience and involvement sections, I spent a good hour researching the `::before` and `::after` pseudo elements, but once I had a solution for the timeline the elements seemed relatively trivial.

Finally, I wrapped up the contact and projects section. In the projects section, I had to make a few concessions in my design - I couldn't get before to properly draw a bordered box behind the accent shadow, and a second crust colored shadow behind it wasn't quite the same. I decided to ditch the backmost box and tackle it some other time.

So far, the website is almost entirely static, but this is a good place to end the first round of development. I'll ask some friends for feedback before moving on to the more flashy features and an actually responsive design.

### TODOs:

I'm pretty surprised about how much progress I've made; however, I think the last few boxes will be relatively hard to check off.

- [ ] UI/UX/Design
  - [x] Figma setup (pages, thumbnail)
  - [x] Wireframing
    - [x] User flow diagram
    - [x] Single page sketch
  - [x] Other design stuff
    - [x] Colors
    - [x] Components
    - [x] Vibes
  - [ ] Feedback
- [ ] Implementation
  - [x] Export palette and other design elements for consistency
  - [x] Setup (pnpm, ts, create vite)
  - [x] Pages
  - [x] Components
  - [ ] Responsive design
  - [ ] Flashy features to impress visitors
  - [ ] Idk

**\- andrewtlu 01-23-23**

P.S once I have more time I'd like to experiment with a [hand-drawn style](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJleHPVpBJw) for my personal website w/ one of my old lego figure 3d models (and potentially three.js) - adding this to my list of future todos.
