tags: website_dev_log

01-23-24 to 02-01-24

# Nav, Skill Filtering, Hover Effects, Population, Responsive Design, and Deployment

TODO: update dates and signature

## Progress

This is probably the densest my dev log will ever get - apologies for the wall of text, but if you're unfamiliar with React or are looking to build a website similar to mine, it may be a worthwhile read as I learned quite a bit from this stretch.

### Navbar

While building the navbar update functionality, I was unable to update any nav elements' ID. The only thing that seemed to fix this was a Vite hot update (by saving App.tsx, even if there were no changes). After an hour of debugging, I remembered ChatGPT and its recommended fix solved the issue. As it turns out, I should have nested my listener it in an useEffect(func, []) to ensure it was applied after the initial render and the initial render only.

With ChatGPT in mind, I tackled the next problem of making scroll also update the navbar and some color accents. At first, I tried using an IntersectionObserver, but the various thresholds were too finnicky and my desired functionality of updating the navbar once the section reached the top of the page did not work. I went back to a simple scroll event handler. After writing a simple loop, the function worked almost perfectly, but very quickly my laptop fans kicked in. I did some research and ended up adding a debounce function in order to reduce the number of calls to the scroll handler function, and that fixed it.

### Skill Filtering

I then decided to tackle the skill button filtering. After doing some research, I realized I needed some sort of global states. I found Redux and initially tried setting it up with the help of a [guide](https://medium.com/@ishdagnesh/how-to-use-react-vite-js-with-redux-0aaf60835052), but I quickly ditched the idea as it was way too overkill and decided to use React Contexts to provide the state globally. It me more time than I would've liked, but I finally managed to make skill button selection states dependent on a global state while also learning about React Contexts.

Finally, it was time to rig the selected states up to each pane. While using `console.log()` within the various helper methods in selected.tsx, I found that the state wasn't immediately updated; I got stuck second guessing myself, but after trying to debug my very simple logic for half an hour I looked it up and realized that React states were asynchronous. Duh.

My next 'duh' moment followed right after: in my intiial `hasContext()` function, I had a `forEach()` loop looping through each element of the prop skills array, checking if any skill is currently selected. However, I completely forgot about the anonymous inner function of the `forEach()`, so my return inside the loop did nothing. I rewrote it to instead use the `some()` function, and that fixed the issue.

### Hover Effects

For the next day and a half, I just played around with hover effects, before settling down on a 3D "lift" effect. Basically, for every single element on the page except for text elements not in panes or in the site header, if it was interactable, I shifted it up and left and added a solid box-shadow to give the effect of elements coming towards the cursor.

### Population & Responsive Design

These steps were also surprisingly easy. All I did was create two json files to store the information of the various experiences and projects I wanted to list, import them as variables (? components? not sure what to call them), and map each of them in their respective sections. I guess it pays to have semi-decent components set up.

Responsive design was also quite easy - I just added a few media queries for max-width, applying them to the header and main content tags. I also added some hidden sticky section labels that would display when the screen was small enough.

### Deployment

Finally, I did a quick Google search on Github Pages deployment and decided to use the `gh-pages` package. I quickly added a `deploy` script to package.json, ran `pnpm run deploy`, and found that I had some issues with images and my resume showing up. I moved those files into public/, and that fixed the problem. I'm assuming you're here from the website, but in case you found me elsewhere, you can now visit the site at [andrewtlu.github.io](https://andrewtlu.github.io/). I might eventually look into a custom domain name, but for now I think this is satisfactory! It's pretty sick

## TODOs:

I think this has been by far the most painful yet enjoyable stretch of the project yet - I've figured out how to make the page more interactive (the Idk task) and finished all the flashy features I can think of at the moment. All that is left now is collecting feedback from friends, adapting the design with said feedback, and adding a dev log and projects page. For now, I'll need to take a break from this project as I've neglected my start of semester assignments, but I feel the project has been (for the most part) completed.

- [ ] UI/UX/Design
  - [x] Figma setup (pages, thumbnail)
  - [x] Wireframing
    - [x] User flow diagram
    - [x] Single page sketch
  - [x] Other design stuff
    - [x] Colors
    - [x] Components
    - [x] Vibes
  - [ ] Feedback
- [ ] Implementation
  - [x] Export palette and other design elements for consistency
  - [x] Setup (pnpm, ts, create vite)
  - [x] Pages
  - [x] Components
  - [x] Automatic Population
  - [x] Flashy features to impress visitors
  - [x] Idk
  - [x] Responsive design
  - [x] Writeup
  - [ ] Dev Log page (blog maybe?) and Projects page
  - [x] Deployment

**\- andrewtlu 02-01-24**
