tags: website_dev_log

12-27-23

# First Log

## Some Context

Decided to finally get back to work on my website, given Christmas is over, I'm done with yardwork around my house, and I've fixed the two or three laptops that decided to break this past year.

## Motivation

With the suggestions from an absolutely cracked upperclassman at Emory, I've decided to restart the entire website and log my progress for my own motivation and learning. Once I have a presentable website suitable for the world (specifically recruiters) to see (:wave: hi!), I'm hoping to have gotten a brief tasting of UI/UX and frontend dev so I can be a better developer and leader, especially since I'm not very capable in helping my project team work on the frontend for Project Emory's [RIDEmory](https://github.com/PROJECT-Emory-2023/RIDEmory) application at the moment.

## Tech Used

For UI/UX and design, I'll be using **Figma** to draw user flow diagrams based off personal observations of other peoples' portfolio websites and online advice from videos and blogs. I'll also use Figma to draw mock-ups of the website's various pages. Figma is entirely new to me, but I've worked through a tutorial online and am getting used to its functionalities.

For the frontend itself, I debated earlier today wih myself between React and Svelte and have decided on **React** with **TypeScript** and **CSS** (no Tailwind), since familiarity with this tech can't hurt and [RIDEmory](https://github.com/PROJECT-Emory-2023/RIDEmory) also uses React (albeit with plain JavaScript and SCSS). I'll also be using **pnpm** instead of npm because of its better efficiency. (To be completely honest, with a project of this scale I don't think any of these choices really matter for any visitors, however I thought it wouldn't hurt reasoning out some of these things).

## TODOs:

I'll be keeping track of progress throughout the logs, making changes when necessary. So far, I've created a rough outline of progression I'll brush up later:

- [ ] UI/UX/Design
  - [ ] User Flow diagrams
  - [ ] Website skeleton markup
  - [ ] Actual designing
- [ ] Coding
  - [ ] Export palette and other design elements for consistency
  - [ ] Setup (pnpm, create-vite)
  - [ ] Pages
  - [ ] Components
  - [ ] Responsive design
  - [ ] Flashy features to impress visitors
  - [ ] Idk

If you know anything about UI/UX, design, or frontend dev, perhaps this list looks very rudimentary or is missing some core elements in your workflow - please feel free to comment in the [repo issues](https://github.com/andrewtlu/andrewtlu.github.io/issues/), even if the website seems to be dead - I promise I'll read any and all comments and would appreciate advice from you! This entire thing is a learning process, and I'm expecting the TODO list to change as I research each step.

**\- andrewtlu 12-27-23**
